# Commodities-Financial-Visualization-and-Analysis-Web-Application

This project is a preliminary web application that a number of different cloud computing services and technologies to provide users with a free-to-use Financial Analysis tool with which they can view visualizations such as 20 year month-over-month price valuations, month-over-month autocorrelation, and even predictions made by a trained ['LSTM'](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_short-term_memory) model on the economic data for a few commodities namely WTI, NATGAS, Wheat, Corn, Soybeans and GLOBCOMINDX. The web application itself was created with Streamlit, a popular and easy-to-use web application development package based on python and was hosted through a docker image on an AWS EC2 instance. On the backend of the project, Databricks was used to collect and transform the commodities data through the ['Federal Reserve Economic data\'s API'](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/docs/api/fred/) and to train the LSTM model which was later used to predict the next 5 months valuations for each commodity. 

The data and metrics computed through Databricks was then pushed to a target S3 bucket through an AWS IAM User with the needed permissions. The following ['Databricks documentation'](https://docs.databricks.com/en/connect/storage/amazon-s3.html) was followed to configure Databricks' compute cluster to enable Databricks to store the data files on the S3 bucket. This data uploading process was engineered in a way that the program initially uploads the data files into a temporary folder on the S3 bucket and upon completion of the upload process, stores a renamed copy of the data files stored in the temporary folder into the main folder from which the streamlit app will collect the data files from.

Lastly, OpenAI's ChatGPT 4.o Mini was utilized and prompt engineered to provide an easy to understand breakdown of the financial graphs for the users who may find it difficult to interpret them due to their lack of financial expertise. This was accomplished following OpenAI's ['documentation on this subject'](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/vision). The streamlit app and Databricks are both configured to periodically refresh in specific intervals ensure the visualizations and predictions are up to date. To ensure safety, all sensitive API keys, and access keys were stored in environment files. 
